>> Steve Kinney: So debugging or
so we got task JSON and
we have this other idea of launch.json.
Launch.json will start up your app and
hook it up to some kind of debugger,
right?
What kind of debugger, it depends on
what kinda debugging you want to do.
You can debug Node apps,
you can debug Python apps.
You can get extensions like we at temporal
have one that will actually let you
stop and debug an actual temporal
workflow in our TypeScript, SDK, right?
So, there are custom debuggers that can
be written as well, but the built in ones
are node, Chrome, Edge, I'm sure I wrote
a list somewhere, a few other ones.
This, again, comes down to, I'm gonna just
think about the questions in advance,
which is for there are obviously other
tools that do this as well, right?
Node inspector has been around forever,
bunn has its own inspector.
And can you hook in to
a running web app and
use the Versus tool Versus Code debugger?
Yes, you know where else
you have a debugger?
Inside of Chrome, right?
And so which one should you use?
Well, I will show you the one
relevant to this course.
If you like this one,
you should use this one.
If you like the one that you use in
Chrome, you should use that one.
I think that there is certain niceties
to have it be in your editor.
But let's be honest with
ourselves the chrome dev
tools are great [LAUGH] right,
they're really good.
So that's the thing as well.
I don't need to run the formatter
whenever this folder opens though.
Cool, so you can hit run debug.
You can also hit this
create launch.json file.
Which is what we're gonna do in this case.
You get a few options,
what kind of debugger would you wanna do?
I'm not running a bun project today.
We got Node, we got a web app,
which we could technically do.
So, all right, I'm gonna do it.
Not wanna do,
that I regret all my choices.
Create a launch.
Let's do the node one.
>> Steve Kinney: Think I wanna launch
>> Steve Kinney: Don't
wanna look at my own notes.
Source, and I think it's server.js.
>> Steve Kinney: I don't think I meant
to make two of these, let's see.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
I hope I did mess up with them.
We gonna launch program which
is gonna launch server.js.
I don't wanna walk in any node
internal please and the type is node.
We got also add more configurations
if you also wanted to attach to
an electron main process.
Again, a lot of these are super good for
electron actually coz there's just
a lot of things to hook into.
You can attach to a currently running
process as well, so on and so forth.
But now if you hit F5,
you will see a large amount of sadness.
Already in use, 3,000 that makes sense.
>> Steve Kinney: So now you can see
I've got the server running over here.
Right, nothing yet to see in here.
But the logos is running at 3,000.
Really wish I had a task.
Do I have a task for
starting at the front end?
Did I do that?
Was I smart enough or
did I spend too much time talking.
I'm pointing at things.
No, I made one.
>> Steve Kinney: This is script dev.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so
now let's also run the front end.
>> Steve Kinney: And let's say,
>> Steve Kinney: Start beat.
>> Steve Kinney: Now we'll
also start up my client so
we can go over to the client real quick.
We've got a task manager.
Yeah, you thought you were gonna get
out of workshop without a to-do list?
Absolutely not.
No, this is Front End Masters.
We put to-do lists.
So now I've got just the front-end running
just so I can not write curl requests.
And I've got the server running on 3,000,
so let's just verify that
task by croutons from store,
great, went into a database.
Life is good.
So now what I can do is,
if I go into server.js,
I've got this wonderful,
amazing express app.
And so we can do lots of things.
We could say, I can get a test
by ID that's not in the app.
We can post, I like this.
We can go anywhere we want and
we can add a little break point, right?
And now what we can do is go ahead and
use our app again.
Read a book.
Books are good.
And I didn't even Cmd+Tab, right?
I got sent back into VS Code,
and we can see you type in title,
and there is the title that passed in.
I can see the full call stack
of Express's router and
the middleware for next,
so on and so forth, right?
I have that break point in there and
so it stopped me there.
I have access to all of the variables
if I was so inclined, right?
So I could actually say title
equals play video games, right?
And now I've changed that variable,
and I've got these controls up here,
which again, are continue,
which is go past the break point,
like step over it into a given function,
out so on and so forth.
Let me be honest to you, a lot of times
I just wanna change something, hit play.
I wanna see that value is.
It's like, where did undefined come from?
Sometimes I will step
up through the stack.
If I'm like, I'm getting tired of
putting console logs everywhere.
Cuz, let's be honest,
we all know how we really debug.
So now I can go ahead and hit play and
then obviously we changed the value
before it went into the database and
here it is, right?
And so if I wanted to see like,
okay, what are all the things on,
the request object at this point or
the response.
I have access to everything
that is currently in memory.
At that moment in time,
I've frozen the world, right?
I can evaluate almost anything that
I would ever possibly want to do.
And then I can carry
on along my merry way.
So let's try it again.
And we can say,
I'm running out of things, read a book.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, and now for
instance if we wanted to go up a level,
you can see that we are somewhere in
the express land of a layer with some kind
of handle requests middleware.
And I can kind of step through, right?
Little more helpful if I had
more than one function or
I put the break point somewhere else.
But the fact of the matter is, this thing
was already undefined by that point.
Go up a function, go up.
And instead of like, cuz even here,
I'm not putting console logs in here.
I can put console logs in my code.
I'm not going to node modules and
hand editing some compiled code.
That ain't happening.
But at any given point, right?
I can look at, I'm assuming,
>> Steve Kinney: I
can see that the request object in this
point and work with it as well, right?
And again, then I can move forward
>> Steve Kinney: Through my application
as well, and see everything along and
so you can go ahead and
try out various different things.
The joke is, it's sometimes very hard to
come up with a fake problem to debug.
But the idea that you can navigate around,
and
it's no different than the chrome tools,
right?
You can also one of
the other tasks that you
can do in here is you can choose to
hook it up to a chrome web app too.
But also keep in mind that now it's
nice coz you can see it in your
own code,
>> Steve Kinney: But
it's also Chrome DevTools are good too.
But yeah,
you can basically set this up and
when we look at extensions in a little
bit this is super useful because you're
spinning up almost a second
version of VS code, right?
And you can you're using a lot
of this tooling to start and
stop it from as well from here.
And so it is useful if one you have some
kind of runtime that supports it, right?
In our case, the TypeScript,
JavaScript support is very good.
I can't speak to, I don't know how good it
is in Rust, right, or Ruby, or whatever.
But you do have the ability to,
kind of stop your code at
various different break points.
And you can do things, everything you can
do in Chrome you can do here too, right?
And so you can have a stop on any uncaught
exceptions, or even caught exceptions,
right which always ends up poorly,
>> Speaker 2: But
you can't rewind like you could
in like Visual Studio, right?
You can't drag it back.
>> Steve Kinney: It will never be
as good as Visual Studio, right?
Even this stuff is really good, but
the CTO at Temporal is
a recovering Java engineer.
And when I watch him use the Java IDs,
[LAUGH] I'm not gonna lie to you, right?
It's not as good, right?
You can pick various functions
that you wanted to break on,
normally I know what I'm kinda looking for
along the way.
The other thing is,
let me go back to my code.
You can edit the break point,
but you can also after
however many hits to that,
not maybe not the first time.
But for some reason, we end up
here too many times, I think also,
the expression, you can put a conditional,
which is if things were good,
don't break here if we
request is undefined or
request that user somehow
became undefined.
Well, then, yeah, stop everything,
I wanna go look at it, right,
which is a lot nicer.
If you find console logging is great,
I'm not gonna lie.
We all do it, but if you find
yourself just looking at the good
things over and over as you try
to get to the right things,
you're better off of doing something.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so
now it is a conditional break point
where I think it should
be good at this point.
Wow, goes through AAA,
we get to the break point, right?
So theoretically, and
I didn't realize this,
that it knows the value of title in this
moment with like Intellisense as well.
Obviously, hopefully with this code,
title can't be undefined.
That's not a code path that should ever
happen, given what's happening on line 52.
But if it was something that
it ought not be, right?
Sometimes it might be as simple as, hey,
at some point, that query param for
an ID that was a string should
have been turned into a number.
I don't know why that's not happening.
You can then have those kinda
conditional break points, and again,
your code will stop at that moment.
You have full access to
everything in memory.
You can change those values to at least
see if the rest of the code path works.
Like I said before, you can,
in this case, step over.
We're still in the break point, but
actually, everything was still good.
Move to the next line of execution.
So here,
we stopped a query with that conditional.
But then I was like, okay,
go to the next line.
And I can do more stuff, right?
And so I could say, here at this point.
>> Steve Kinney: Query was
defined at this point.
I can, at that point,
move to the next line,
which will be that res.sunstatus, right?
And I can see, I mean there's no
new value there at this point, but
you can go through each line and
then all that memory is in scope.
You can manipulate stuff,
you can change stuff,
which again, can make the process
of working out a bug very easy.
And if you think about the amount of
work we did to set it up, it was like,
I made a launch.json
that said run node and
it under the hood passed inspect break,
but it's not important.
It did the right thing
with very little work.
>> Speaker 2: If you don't set a break
point, you can't have an option to break
on all, you can't set it to
break no matter what, right?
I mean, without the break point,
it's not gonna stop.
>> Steve Kinney: You can have a break
on caught or uncaught exceptions.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, or
even particular names that error, right?
>> Speaker 2: Conditional.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, and
even for code exception as well.
So instead of just sort errors,
a good practice sometimes is
having express API error, right?
And you have various
two kinds of errors so
if I get this kind of error then stop me,
right?
And the one you just run node source
server, your thing runs as normal, but
if you run it with the launch config, then
you'll be opted into these things, right?
Again, there are things
like Node Inspector.
Bun has Safari's dev
tools that you can use.
There are other options, but
for the amount of work and
the fact that I am in my editor and
the fact that,
I'm pretty sure,
change the next line of code, right and
before it gets to it is interesting
when you need it as well.